Component composition, so
at this point you're probably thinking
to yourself there's a lot of logic in
the search params route here, right?
Like this is 100 line
component there's no hard and
fast rule after X amount of lines do this
but when you're approaching like 100, 150,
200 components getting pretty long.
So you might think about like,
what is this component doing?
And like, is there something
that I can break out of here and
put into another component and
then I can kind of have smaller
components that compose into each other.
It just makes it easier to manage, easier
to kind of reason about but the other
thing I wanna kind of put you on to is,
you can break it down too much, right?
I'm trying to remember at Reddit,
when I was we were doing
our first react app.
We broke everything down into
the tiniest components, like text line.
We like our own paragraph components.
There's a point where it gets
ridiculous and it's hard to understand,
what's going on and
why it's done that way.
And at some point you actually
start running into performance
problems because there's so
many components in your truth.
We had depths of 200 components
sometimes inside in our React App,
which was ungood is
the the scientific term for that.
So just balance, right?
You have to balance like code readability.
Usually performance is not a thing,
particularly now react is much
faster than it used to be.
So I don't think that necessarily
be a concern today but
back then it definitely was.
Anyway, let's pull our pet
rendering out of this red,
now we have this little part here,
this is just a list of pets.
So one that could be reusable, right?
We can use like a list of pecky
components somewhere else.
That's good.
And
it's a very easy thing to break down here.
So what I want you to do, I want you
to make a new component here and
I want you to call it results.js.
Here we're gonna import pet from pet.
And we're gonna make const results equals,
and
then we're gonna pull
a parameter here called pets.
And here we're going to return.
I am gonna talk about
turn [INAUDIBLE] here.
Everyone let's turn Aries right?
So we're gonna ask a question here,
is like do I have any pets?
So if you don't have any pets,
which this is what this is checking,
right?
So if I have no pets here,
then I gonna [INAUDIBLE] because
these is no pets found, right?
So we're gonna do this with a ternary.
And again, I recognize that
this is kind of hard to read.
But I'm showing you this
because this is all over react,
people use ternary is everywhere.
So we're gonna put like an h1
here that says, no pets found.
Okay, that's, no, don't do that.
That's harder to read.
Okay, otherwise, we're gonna put
this kinda what we had here.
In fact, you can just go copy and
paste this outta here.
I'll just copy it.
That
>> Because you don't need
the curly bracket?
To start pets
>> I think you're right.
Thanks, appreciate that.
Okay, so
let's unpack this cuz it's a little dense.
And I intentionally did that, again,
cuz you're gonna find react
code that looks like this.
I'm not necessarily telling you
this is the best way to write it.
Though I did write this.
So you can say, Brian that's really
dumb and you probably right.
So that's fine.
So results here this is destruction,
right?
So basically the same
thing here saying const.
Pets equals params.pets and
this was params,
right, same thing, We're just saying that
we know that there is a thing here called
pets, we would like to pull that out,
okay, then we're putting this
all inside of a div here.
And we're saying, hey, if no pets are
found, so if there's no length to pets,
then do no pets found, right,
we'll just display that out.
Otherwise, and
this is what this ternary is,
which is just a normal JavaScript feature.
I mentioned most of us don't use it
a whole lot because it's kind of unclear.
But again, because all these
are just JavaScript expressions,
you can do turneries here but
you couldn't put an if statement here.
So that's why people end up using
a lot of turn arrays in react.
So that's what the colon is
the otherwise this is like,
if this is true do this,
if it's not true do this.
That's the sum of what a ternary is,
then you're saying otherwise pets.map.
Do all this other stuff.
We're gonna pass a few
more things into pet.
We already have the animal,
we have the breed, we have the name,
we have key,
we have to pass in the images, pet.images.
We're gonna pass in a location and
we're going to actually just
put in a template string here.
Pet.,pet.city, pet.state and
then, id=pet.id.
So, what's cool about this now, is we can
take in a list of any arbitrary pets and
we can display out a list here, right?
So you can imagine we have our
search results page but let's say,
we were going to go build later a, I don't
know an administrator tool where someone
could go and
moderate all the pets coming in, right?
And we could just throw a results.
Other component there so
this has become reusable.
Yeah.
>> Just a bit ago you said you
can't run an if statement.
And I guess maybe I'm
forgetting fundamentally but
at what point when we
started this JavaScript?
What functions?
Why can't we do it as statement?
Why can't we do?
>> Sure, so there's a term in
JavaScript called an expression.
And expression is basically anything
you can put on the right side of
an equal sign.
So if I have const X equals,
whatever I can put here.
That's what you would consider
an expression in JavaScript.
So anything that goes in between curly
braces here has to be an expression.
So what's different than
an expression is a statement.
So notice that we always call them if
statements because they are statements.
So if blah, const x equals five, right?
This would be a statement and
therefore you can't do statements
inside of the curly braces, yep.
Just to drive further home a little bit,
the entire thing here,
this entire line ten of the assignment
is an assignment statement, right?
So it's basically like one line.
It's what you'd put between semicolons,
is a good way you can think about that.
As opposed to what's on the right
side here, just the seven,
that's the expression.
That makes sense?
>> Yeah, so to expand it a little further
than, if for some reason, we wanted our
JavaScript to adjust a variable,
change x to 10 or something like that.
Then let's kind of fundamentally
why we're using use state and
things like that, rather than putting
in listeners and updating code.
Within those HTML elements.
>> Yeah, that's one way you
could frame it, for sure, cool.
Okay, so go back to Search params and
instead of this whole
statement here of like line 89
to line 96, I am just gonna put results.
So now what's cool about VS code here
is I can just start typing results.
It's like, do you want to pull
in results from ./results?
And it's like, yes, I do.
Yes, please.
And then if you go look up at the top,
it automatically imported it for me.
But if it didn't do that for
you make sure you have the line for
there import results from results.
Okay, so down here we have to
pass in pets to it, right?
So pets = .
Okay, and then last thing up here, we can
get rid of the pet import since we're no
longer using that directly
inside of our search params.
That's only being used with results.
Now if we went over to our page here,
it should look exactly the same
except notice for a hot second.
It says, no pets found.
Because that's what our new
results component will do,
it'll show no pets found if
there's nothing there and
initially there's nothing
there on that first render.